# Formunauts Interview assignment

Implementing an API endpoint that returns events occurring near a given base event, optionally filtered by date.

## Endpoint

GET /events/{event_id}/nearby_events/?radius=&lt;meters&gt;&date=&lt;YYYY-MM-DD&gt;

## Data source

Events are read from 'input.json'

## Setup

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

## Running

```bash
fastapi dev
```

The API will be available at: http://localhost:8000/events/{event_id}/nearby_events/  
Example request: http://localhost:8000/events/9801193/nearby_events?radius=5000&date=2026-03-01

## Documentation

Swagger UI documentation generated by FastAPI: http://localhost:8000/docs

## Tests

Tests are in the tests folder, covering happy path and error cases.

## Design Considerations

This is a solution written in 2-3 hours as an MVP for the interview assignment. In a production system, I would:
- set up a PostgreSQL (+ PostGIS) database, insert the event data in it, and read from there.
- use the GeoAlchemy2 library instead of GeoPy, as it seems better suited to this task.
- create a Dockerfile and a docker-compose.yml, to run the app in a container.
- look into geospatial indexing.
- add a root ("/") endpoint and health ("/health") endpoint.
- set up pagination.
- add logging, monitoring, deployment pipelines.
- add authentication (JWT token or API key).

## Scaling Considerations

### How would your solution perform with millions of events?
As it is just an MVP, not well in its current shape. The biggest blocker would be reading millions of events from a file into memory on each request. Using a database would be my first step to dramatically improve performance - setting up indexes and filtering in there. Pagination would also help a lot.

### How would you optimize geospatial queries?
I would switch to GeoAlchemy2's ST_GeogFromWKB function for geolocation parsing and the ST_DWithin function for seeing whether a location is in radius. That would shift the filtering into the DB, which is much faster. I would also use a GIST spatial index for the device coordinates.

### How would you handle indexing?
Apart from the index mentioned above, a B-tree index on the timestamp would speed up the date filter.

### How would you ensure performance (e.g. <200ms response time)?
Additionally to these steps, I would also add connection pooling.
Performance testing could ensure that I meet the criteria.
